MAINTAINERS.md, before:

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Current Maintainers](#current-maintainers)
- [Emeritus](#emeritus)
  
## Overview

[This document](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md#maintainer-responsibilities) explains who the maintainers are (see below), what they do in this repo, and how they should be doing it. If you're interested in contributing, see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Current Maintainers

| Maintainer           | GitHub ID                                     | Affiliation |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Soner Sayakci        | [shyim](https://github.com/shyim)             | shopware AG |
| Vacha Shah           | [VachaShah](https://github.com/VachaShah)     | Amazon      |
| Daniel Doubrovkine   | [dblock](https://github.com/dblock)           | Amazon      |
| Harsha Vamsi Kalluri | [harshavamsi](https://github.com/harshavamsi) | Amazon      |

## Emeritus
| Maintainer      | GitHub ID                                           | Affiliation |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Paul Borgermans | [paulborgermans](https://github.com/paulborgermans) | External    |

Commit message:

Updated MAINTAINERS.md to match recommended opensearch-project format.
Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

MAINTAINERS.md, after:

## Overview

This document contains a list of maintainers in this repo. See [opensearch-project/.github/RESPONSIBILITIES.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md#maintainer-responsibilities) that explains what the role of maintainer means, what maintainers do in this and other repos, and how they should be doing it. If you're interested in contributing, and becoming a maintainer, see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Current Maintainers

| Maintainer           | GitHub ID                                     | Affiliation |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Soner Sayakci        | [shyim](https://github.com/shyim)             | shopware AG |
| Vacha Shah           | [VachaShah](https://github.com/VachaShah)     | Amazon      |
| Daniel Doubrovkine   | [dblock](https://github.com/dblock)           | Amazon      |
| Harsha Vamsi Kalluri | [harshavamsi](https://github.com/harshavamsi) | Amazon      |

## Emeritus

| Maintainer      | GitHub ID                                           | Affiliation |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Paul Borgermans | [paulborgermans](https://github.com/paulborgermans) | External    |
