README.md, before:

![OpenSearch logo](OpenSearch.svg)

- [Welcome!](#welcome)
- [Project Resources](#project-resources)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Compatibility with OpenSearch](#compatibility-with-opensearch)
- [License](#license)
- [Copyright](#copyright)

## Welcome!

**opensearch-php** is [a community-driven, open source fork](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-opensearch/) of elasticsearch-php licensed under the [Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/LICENSE). For more information, see [opensearch.org](https://opensearch.org/).

## Project Resources

* [Project Website](https://opensearch.org/)
* [User Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/USER_GUIDE.md)
* [Developer Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md)
* [Downloads](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html).
* [Documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/)
* Need help? Try [Forums](https://discuss.opendistrocommunity.dev/)
* [Project Principles](https://opensearch.org/#principles)
* [Contributing to OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Maintainer Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
* [Release Management](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/RELEASING.md)
* [Admin Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/ADMINS.md)
* [Security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/SECURITY.md)

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq), or contact [opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com](mailto:opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Compatibility with OpenSearch

See [Compatibility](COMPATIBILITY.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/LICENSE).

## Copyright

Copyright OpenSearch Contributors. See [NOTICE](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/NOTICE) for details.

Commit message:

alert : just a noob trying to learn PR

README.md, after:

##this line of text in readme is the only change i have made , dont be alarmed im just a noob dev trying learn out pull requests work so kindly ignore me 

![OpenSearch logo](OpenSearch.svg)

- [Welcome!](#welcome)
- [Project Resources](#project-resources)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Compatibility with OpenSearch](#compatibility-with-opensearch)
- [License](#license)
- [Copyright](#copyright)

## Welcome!

**opensearch-php** is [a community-driven, open source fork](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-opensearch/) of elasticsearch-php licensed under the [Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/LICENSE). For more information, see [opensearch.org](https://opensearch.org/).

## Project Resources

* [Project Website](https://opensearch.org/)
* [User Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/USER_GUIDE.md)
* [Developer Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md)
* [Downloads](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html).
* [Documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/)
* Need help? Try [Forums](https://discuss.opendistrocommunity.dev/)
* [Project Principles](https://opensearch.org/#principles)
* [Contributing to OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Maintainer Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
* [Release Management](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/RELEASING.md)
* [Admin Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/ADMINS.md)
* [Security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/SECURITY.md)

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq), or contact [opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com](mailto:opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Compatibility with OpenSearch

See [Compatibility](COMPATIBILITY.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/LICENSE).

## Copyright

Copyright OpenSearch Contributors. See [NOTICE](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-php/blob/main/NOTICE) for details.
